>> A groundbreaking new
study seeks to scientifically
validate an ability we
may all be born with--
clairvoyance.
This is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Clairvoyance or the
ability to perceive
beyond the physical
sense of sight
has been documented in almost
every culture across all time.
And yet, it, like other
psychic abilities,
has often been feared,
misunderstood, and disbelieved.
Today an ever-growing interest
in extended perception
has motivated researchers
to scientifically study
the phenomenon.
Helane Wahbeh is the Director
of Research at the Institute
of Noetic Sciences
or IONS, which
investigates transcendent
human experiences
through rigorous
scientific study.
Dr. Wahbeh and her team
recently conducted the study
into clairvoyance.
>> Clairvoyance is
a historic term.
It's been used for
a very long time.
And it specifically
means clear seeing.
But, really, it is this
extended perception
of being able to perceive beyond
our physical sense of sight.
This shows up in
different ways for people.
Some people actually see colors.
They see supposed
other beings that
don't have physical bodies.
Other people see in
their mind's eye.
So they might receive
information or visuals
from other people,
from things around them
that they wouldn't normally
be able to possibly know
with their traditional
five senses.
>> Cyndi Dale is an energy
healer and intuitive who has
experienced clairvoyant
abilities throughout her entire
life.
>> So there are many, many
different ways that somebody
can get a clairvoyant
image or vision.
One of the ways is
at night, in dreams.
Sometimes they're in color.
Sometimes they're
in black and white.
Some people get their visions
when they're daydreaming.
Sometimes the pictures that
come in are more futuristic.
They're about predestiny.
They're about something
that could happen.
Many times I find
that the visions
are really more about
history, what's occurred,
or what's happened.
Or they're psychological.
And they're explaining what is.
Being clairvoyant, which
I am, is complicated
because it's not
just about receiving.
It's about how do you
work with the images.
How do you interact with them?
>> While many clairvoyants have
experienced these abilities
from birth, there are many
others who have developed
the skill through training,
which begs the question,
is everyone clairvoyant?
>> Does everyone have the
capacity to receive information
and energy from
beyond time and space?
Yes, I do believe everyone
has the capacity to do that.
And yet, the way that it
shows up for them is unique.
>> Using clairvoyance to obtain
verifiable information has been
repeatedly demonstrated in
the forms of remote viewing
and medical intuition.
The recent study at
IONS is the first design
to validate whether
clairvoyant seers are
able to accurately perceive
what occurs during an energy
medicine session.
It is a follow-up
to an earlier study
IONS did with the
participation of one seer which
yielded promising results.
As this experiment
incorporates multiple seers,
the researchers' hope is that
the findings will not only
validate the practice
of clairvoyance
but will also shed light on
how energy medicine works.
>> And we had these Reiki
masters giving 30-minute
sessions to people who had a
variety of different health
conditions.
And in that space, we had
six clairvoyant seers who
were observing the sessions.
And the primary
research question
is, what is the corroboration
between those six
seers in terms of what they were
observing during each session?
Our hypothesis is
that there will
be a corroboration
between them, thus,
validating this experience
of clairvoyant seeing.
>> Researchers just finished
data collection and are working
on the findings.
In this study and others
being planned at IONS,
the goal is not only to
validate clairvoyance
but also to understand
just how it works.
>> So this brings us to this
interesting paradigm shift that
we're in right now.
So we're moving from a
materialistic paradigm that
holds that all that is
is the physical, what
we can touch that's around
us that we can perceive.
And we're moving into a
post-materialistic paradigm
that believes that we are
more than just the physical.
Our consciousness
can perceive things
that are beyond our
physical brain and body
and can perceive things
beyond space and time.
Then this idea of being
able to see things
that our eyes can't see or
that are in a different room
or that are inside someone's
body become more plausible.
>> Should this study meet
its goal of validating
clairvoyance, what could
the implications be?
>> How exciting if from
this study people go, wow,
clairvoyance is real.
It perceives reality at
this very vital level.
And I too can enhance my
own clairvoyant abilities
and work those to help me
in my own everyday life,
to help me with self-healing,
to help me with friends,
to help me make decisions,
to help me make this world
a better place.
>> For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.